---
title: Dev-Shell
tagline: "A Perl Script with layout and support files to automatically create a windows-based MSYS / MinGW development system from scratch"
homepage: "http://www.dev-shell.net"
repo: "seapagan/dev-shell"
---
This is my custom MinGW/MSYS development system on Windows. It is a custom setup using the standard MSYS, but using the MinGW-w64 GCC distribution instead of the MinGW provided GCC binaries.

The goal of this project is to be able to make a fully-reproducible and standard development package for MinGW under MS Windows, to reduce errors and frustration caused by contributors to a project using different development bases. It can be set as a development pre-req for project participation.

A secondary goal is to teach myself Perl programming, this being my first attempt at that language, so please excuse the bad coding, and any suggestions for improvement are more than welcome! :) Note that the 'TinyPerl' in use during the bootstap phase is a very cut-down version of Perl 5.8.0, so many standard modules are not available. The full Perl 5.20.2 is available to the completed system however.

The command-line environment is based around the 'Console2' program and also includes ANSICON to provide ANSI escape sequences in the console. The major bonus is that the whole system is completely portable and can be used on a USB stick on any windows system, without requiring any special prerequisite tools to be already installed on that system.

As a major design decision this script will, for the moment, install the 32 BIT version of the MinGW compilers and libraries, Perl and Ruby. This was to allow ultimate portability and support for the multitude of libraries already existing. Once the project is mature and stable, a 64-bit branch will be added. That being said, one of the features of this project is that all the components are taken from url lists, that also contain the unpack specs, so adding extra libraries, converting to 64-bit or even removing unwanted libraries is trivial.
